---
layout: post
title: "Tully Jones-Wilkins"
img: tully/post-img.png # Add image post (optional)
date: 2020-05-15 12:55:00 +0300
description: # Add post description (optional)
tag: [Data Visualization, Programming, Design]
---
# Junior Project
I created a series of Data driven Generative art visualizations using data from confirmed covid-19 cases. I was the sole leader and only person working on this project. I pivoted on topics a few times but finally was able to get over my fear and commit to work on the gen art project. My role was the head design, engineer, etc. I worked on processing, github, researched data sets, studied data sets and statistical analysis for the data used.

I jumped into a topic that I knew very little about and was far from comfortable with: data analysis and coding in Processing. As I was juggling with my conscience for what topic to do, what data to visualize, I was still learning processing. I chose to do a generative art project because I loved working with processing after I became comfortable with it. It was a creative outlet for me. Not one that takes precise skill like drawing or painting, but one that takes conceptual and technical functionality and translates it into a way to express myself artistically. It took me a long time to understand why I chose this topic. Luckily because of the freedom I had I was able to progress and find why I chose it. And It turned into something special. I loved having a full-fledged introduction into this creative coding world and can’t wait to continue working on more visualizations in the future.

This project really helped me understand that I lack some commitment sometimes. After struggling with choosing a topic I understood that more and more. Even though it isn't a positive I think that this experience will definitely help me adapt to this problem in the future and help me have some conviction to continue without worrying about such things.

In other regards this project will definitely help me in the future. I now know more than I ever thought I would about things like creative coding, writing a html webpage, working on a local server, understanding URL’S more. And most of all understanding the conceptual design behind coding languages. It will help me in the future if I have a project involving web services, design, or even technical programming issues and solutions. I also think that this project has helped me further a different way of thinking. More formulaic and in sequence.


<iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/eSR1eF3A_Gk" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen></iframe>

I learned how to program in processing, by no means am I an expert, or even intermediate, but I am confident in my ability to further my knowledge. Learn other languages, find ways to implement these skills into my life.

I also learned more about myself. I feel that I have gained skill in working at home, with many distractions. I was able to complete my project and feel really comfortable with my work ethic.

One of the most powerful skills I have gained in this project is my analysis skills, many times during the project I looked toward other coders in the community, methods they used to solve problems. This forced me to analyze their code, their style, and the devices they use to solve a problem. Much like what a poet does in their writing. I have always been comfortable analyzing poems and stories and I feel even more confident now analyzing things in general.

However silly this may seem my typing speed has definitely improved a lot so that is an improved skill :)


<iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/UJQb-OxqtH8" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen></iframe>

I learned all about different processing functions, how to use variables effectively, what is a loop, how to use time to solve problems. The list goes on and on with technical information that I learned and functionality behind it. I learned information about systems of data, how to use them effectively, how to convey thoughts or devices through the code using movement. I also learned a lot of information about the concepts behind programming. “Computational thinking”


<iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/wPOHD46UPD8" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen></iframe>

The technical skills that I learned will surely help me in future project, college classes. Etc. I also really value the time that I spent working on these projects and want to continue working on processing for a long time.

My skill in analyzing documents, stories, books, programs, and more will help me in the workplace as well as in future academic endeavors. I feel that if I were to be presented with something to analyze I could use multiple perspectives and thought processes to understand more and see more than if I was only approaching it one way. Ex. formulaic vs conceptual, holistic vs partial.

[Link to Project](https://tjoneswilkins.github.io/Mountain-Series/)

# Coffee Roaster
In this project I was all of the roles. As it was a solo project I worked in design, communication, and research, plus much more. Specifically I learned the need-to-know parts of coffee roasting through both experience and through extensive research. I also experimented and completed a digital design of a portable coffee roaster on Fusion 360. I began to promote myself on platforms through my coffee roaster and the design process behind it.

<div class="sketchfab-embed-wrapper">
    <iframe title="A 3D model" width="640" height="480" src="https://sketchfab.com/models/0ca399b2a7bf4b0396c1bfb050c9e180/embed?autospin=0.2&amp;preload=1&amp;ui_controls=1&amp;ui_infos=1&amp;ui_inspector=1&amp;ui_stop=1&amp;ui_watermark=1&amp;ui_watermark_link=1" frameborder="0" allow="autoplay; fullscreen; vr" mozallowfullscreen="true" webkitallowfullscreen="true"></iframe>
    <p style="font-size: 13px; font-weight: normal; margin: 5px; color: #4A4A4A;">
        <a href="https://sketchfab.com/3d-models/delta-coffee-roaster-0ca399b2a7bf4b0396c1bfb050c9e180?utm_medium=embed&utm_source=website&utm_campaign=share-popup" target="_blank" style="font-weight: bold; color: #1CAAD9;">Delta Coffee Roaster</a>
        by <a href="https://sketchfab.com/tjoneswilkins?utm_medium=embed&utm_source=website&utm_campaign=share-popup" target="_blank" style="font-weight: bold; color: #1CAAD9;">Tully Jones-Wilkins</a>
        on <a href="https://sketchfab.com?utm_medium=embed&utm_source=website&utm_campaign=share-popup" target="_blank" style="font-weight: bold; color: #1CAAD9;">Sketchfab</a>
    </p>
</div>



I did a coffee project because it was truly what I am interested in. When you work on a project that you love you work harder, better, and most of all with more enthusiasm. Sure, at times there was the worries, or the stress, procrastination. But in the end I was able to do this project because of the human-centered design atmosphere. I hope to continue doing projects that I love. Furthermore I think that this project shows that I am a person who goes all in on a topic. In this example it was coffee.  

Recently I have been thinking how incredible it is to be exposed to this kind of education at this critical age. This project was especially eye-opening to me for how this exposure can fill you out as a student but also as a person and an applicant. Having the opportunity to do what you love for school is not something that most schools offer. While most high school students are saddled by homework and stresses of grades I am career searching. I will add, I have been seriously considering looking into a career involving coffee.

I learned a whole array of skills while working on this project, I learned about coffee roasting. The chemistry and science behind the roasting process. I learned that roasting is a high stress situation that takes skill and full attention to be successful. I learned how to use fusion 360 and I have a newfound confidence and competence in digital design. I practiced networking skills with others in the coffee community. I learned the importance of prototyping, planned design, and Iterative work.

First and foremost I learned the most about coffee itself. Roasting equipment, brewing equipment, bean specific information. Especially from my extensive reading of The Coffee Roaster’s companion by scott rao. That book taught me technical information about roasting and much more. I have also grown my understanding of how important coffee is to our world. After reading the book The coffee Trader  I feel that I have a better perspective of the connection between our world's culture and how much of it revolves around caffeine and coffee.

In the future these skills and information will definitely help me in the job search process. For example if I want to work at a coffee roaster, I could have a jump start compared to other applicants. I think that the information that I learned will help me in a different way. It helped me understand how much more there is to something than what is on the surface. I can apply this understanding to my academics. Looking further than the study guide, finding some part of the topic that caught my attention. Because once you have that connection then the rest will come easier.
But I know without a doubt that coffee is in my future. Not only is coffee in my future but so is design. Understanding and having experience with iterative design. On the computer and off, will undoubtedly help me in my academics and general life.

[Link to Project](https://tjoneswilkins.github.io/Delta-Coffee-Roaster-Design/)
